algorithms/linfa-elasticnet/README.md, before:

# Elastic Net

`linfa-elasticnet` provides a pure Rust implementations of elastic net linear regression.

## The Big Picture

`linfa-elasticnet` is a crate in the [`linfa`](https://crates.io/crates/linfa) ecosystem, an effort to create a toolkit for classical Machine Learning implemented in pure Rust, akin to Python's `scikit-learn`.

## Current state

The `linfa-elasticnet` crate provides linear regression with ridge and LASSO constraints. The solver uses coordinate descent to find an optimal solution.

This library contains an elastic net implementation for linear regression models. It combines l1 and l2 penalties of the LASSO and ridge methods and offers therefore a greater flexibility for feature selection. With increasing penalization certain parameters become zero, their corresponding variables are dropped from the model.

See also:
 * [Wikipedia on Elastic net](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elastic_net_regularization)

## Examples

There is an usage example in the `examples/` directory. To run, use:

```bash
$ cargo run --features linfa/intel-mkl-system --example elasticnet
```

<details>
<summary style="cursor: pointer; display:list-item;">
Show source code
</summary>

```rust
use linfa::prelude::*;
use linfa_elasticnet::{ElasticNet, Result};

// load Diabetes dataset
let (train, valid) = linfa_datasets::diabetes().split_with_ratio(0.90);

// train pure LASSO model with 0.1 penalty
let model = ElasticNet::params()
    .penalty(0.3)
    .l1_ratio(1.0)
    .fit(&train)?;

println!("intercept:  {}", model.intercept());
println!("params: {}", model.hyperplane());

println!("z score: {:?}", model.z_score());

// validate
let y_est = model.predict(&valid);
println!("predicted variance: {}", valid.r2(&y_est)?);
# Result::Ok(())
```
</details>

Commit message:

Eliminate BLAS dependency for ALL crates (#207)
* Integrate ndarray-linalg-rs into linfa-clustering

* Restructure linfa-datasets to fix warnings

* Add support for linfa-ica

* Integrate into PLS (bugs pending)

* Integration with linfa-reduction complete

* Fix PLS CCA test

* Use invh instead of invc in elasticnet since the input might not be positive definite

* Integrate into linfa-preprocessing

* Integrate into linfa-linear

* Integrate into linfa-elasticnet

* Optimize gaussian mixture solve_triangular call

* Fix example Cargo invocations to not use blas features

* Remove BLAS from CI steps and add BLAS test job

* Enable most CI steps even in draft PRs

* Fix test-blas workflow name

* Eliminate BLAS from linfa-logistic

* Fix more examples invocations in READMEs

* Add non_exhaustive to modified error types so the blas feature is additive

* Change linfa-reduction to use truncated SVD and LOBPCG

* Switch to linfa-linalg

* Fix system BLAS to static BLAS in CI

* Centralized README docs on BLAS feature

algorithms/linfa-elasticnet/README.md, after:

# Elastic Net

`linfa-elasticnet` provides a pure Rust implementations of elastic net linear regression.

## The Big Picture

`linfa-elasticnet` is a crate in the [`linfa`](https://crates.io/crates/linfa) ecosystem, an effort to create a toolkit for classical Machine Learning implemented in pure Rust, akin to Python's `scikit-learn`.

## Current state

The `linfa-elasticnet` crate provides linear regression with ridge and LASSO constraints. The solver uses coordinate descent to find an optimal solution.

This library contains an elastic net implementation for linear regression models. It combines l1 and l2 penalties of the LASSO and ridge methods and offers therefore a greater flexibility for feature selection. With increasing penalization certain parameters become zero, their corresponding variables are dropped from the model.

See also:
 * [Wikipedia on Elastic net](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elastic_net_regularization)

## BLAS/Lapack backend

See [this section](../../README.md#blaslapack-backend) to enable an external BLAS/LAPACK backend.

## Examples

There is an usage example in the `examples/` directory. To run, use:

```bash
$ cargo run --example elasticnet
```

<details>
<summary style="cursor: pointer; display:list-item;">
Show source code
</summary>

```rust
use linfa::prelude::*;
use linfa_elasticnet::{ElasticNet, Result};

// load Diabetes dataset
let (train, valid) = linfa_datasets::diabetes().split_with_ratio(0.90);

// train pure LASSO model with 0.1 penalty
let model = ElasticNet::params()
    .penalty(0.3)
    .l1_ratio(1.0)
    .fit(&train)?;

println!("intercept:  {}", model.intercept());
println!("params: {}", model.hyperplane());

println!("z score: {:?}", model.z_score());

// validate
let y_est = model.predict(&valid);
println!("predicted variance: {}", valid.r2(&y_est)?);
# Result::Ok(())
```
</details>
