algorithms/linfa-pls/README.md, before:

# Partial Least Squares

`linfa-pls` provides a pure Rust implementation of the partial least squares algorithm family.

## The Big Picture

`linfa-pls` is a crate in the [`linfa`](https://crates.io/crates/linfa) ecosystem, an effort to create a toolkit for classical Machine Learning implemented in pure Rust, akin to Python's `scikit-learn`.

## Current state

`linfa-pls` currently provides an implementation of the following methods: 

 - Partial Least Squares

## Examples

There is an usage example in the `examples/` directory. The example uses a BLAS backend, to run it and use the `intel-mkl` library do:

```bash
$ cargo run --example pls_regression --features linfa/intel-mkl-system
```

## License
Dual-licensed to be compatible with the Rust project.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0> or the MIT license <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>, at your option. This file may not be copied, modified, or distributed except according to those terms.

Commit message:

Eliminate BLAS dependency for ALL crates (#207)
* Integrate ndarray-linalg-rs into linfa-clustering

* Restructure linfa-datasets to fix warnings

* Add support for linfa-ica

* Integrate into PLS (bugs pending)

* Integration with linfa-reduction complete

* Fix PLS CCA test

* Use invh instead of invc in elasticnet since the input might not be positive definite

* Integrate into linfa-preprocessing

* Integrate into linfa-linear

* Integrate into linfa-elasticnet

* Optimize gaussian mixture solve_triangular call

* Fix example Cargo invocations to not use blas features

* Remove BLAS from CI steps and add BLAS test job

* Enable most CI steps even in draft PRs

* Fix test-blas workflow name

* Eliminate BLAS from linfa-logistic

* Fix more examples invocations in READMEs

* Add non_exhaustive to modified error types so the blas feature is additive

* Change linfa-reduction to use truncated SVD and LOBPCG

* Switch to linfa-linalg

* Fix system BLAS to static BLAS in CI

* Centralized README docs on BLAS feature

algorithms/linfa-pls/README.md, after:

# Partial Least Squares

`linfa-pls` provides a pure Rust implementation of the partial least squares algorithm family.

## The Big Picture

`linfa-pls` is a crate in the [`linfa`](https://crates.io/crates/linfa) ecosystem, an effort to create a toolkit for classical Machine Learning implemented in pure Rust, akin to Python's `scikit-learn`.

## Current state

`linfa-pls` currently provides an implementation of the following methods: 

 - Partial Least Squares

## Examples

There is an usage example in the `examples/` directory. To run it, use:

```bash
$ cargo run --example pls_regression
```

## BLAS/Lapack backend

See [this section](../../README.md#blaslapack-backend) to enable an external BLAS/LAPACK backend.

## License
Dual-licensed to be compatible with the Rust project.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0> or the MIT license <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>, at your option. This file may not be copied, modified, or distributed except according to those terms.
